title: Stack Processor utnik (S.P.utnik)
slug: sputnik
layout: project
tags: FPGA processor computer architecture
category: projects


During Fall quarter of my Sophomore year at Rose I took Computer Architecture.
For most of the quarter, the class is assigned to design a 16-bit processor in
teams of 4. These are the results of that project for my group.

<!--more-->

## Design

In most of our lectures we discussed the MIPS architecture. When my team began
working on this project we recognized that most other teams would simply copy
the MIPS architecture and modify it to make it 16-bits. This is not an easy task
in itself, but we wanted to be different, we wanted to do something no one else
had done or was going to do. So we decided we would make our processor a stack
based processor.

These are a few of the design documents we had to make throughout the quarter:

  * [Final Design Document]({filename}/media/sputnik.pdf) \- A compilation of most of the documentation we
    created throughout the quarter.
  * [Original Datapath]({filename}/images/sputnik_datapath.png) \- This is our original (Hand drawn) design for the
    datapath. Its a little messy, but hopefully understandable.
  * [Final Datapath]({filename}/images/datapath.pdf) \- This is our final datapath drawing. Not much
    different from the original but much easier to read.

## FPGA Implementation

We actually managed to get the processor design onto our FPGA, and ran a few
simple programs to test it. However the entire assignment was to implement a
processor and run a specific program (C code for this program was given) and we
were unable to write this program in our machine code in time. So, technically,
we didnt finish the project, but we did manage to get the processor itself on
the FPGA, which a lot of groups had trouble with.
