title: Carputer
slug: carputer
layout: project
tags: stereo, mac mini, head unit, tochscreen
category: projects


A few months after I got my new Volvo S70, I began to think that the stereo
head unit would be perfect for a carputer (car computer). It's a rather large
head unit, probably about twice as tall as a typical one, so there would be
plenty of space inside for a computer and the other necessary electronics. The
other great thing about it is that you can remove it just by popping two tabs
and pulling it out, making debugging really easy.

<!--more-->

Original Head Unit (Before):

![Before]({static}./images/carputer_before.jpg)

Carputer (After):

![After]({static}./images/carputer_after.jpg)

## Parts

### Computer

First I had to decide what computer I was going to put into the thing. Building
my own was out of the question - I could never make it small enough. There are
a few commercialy available miniature PCs, but I decided on a Mac Mini. It fits
nearly perfectly inside the gutted stereo, and it's been used for this sort of
thing before, so help would be easier to find, if necessary.

### Power Supply

Unfortunately, my car doesn't have wall outlets, so I needed some sort of power
supply to convert the 12V from the battery to a usable voltage for the mac. I
found exactly what I needed in the
[Carnetix CNX-P1900](http://carnetix.com/CNXP1900.htm). It's a power supply that
is made specifically for this purpose. Besides just powering the computer and
other peripherals, it will accept an ignition signal, and switch the computer on
and off with the car rather than just cutting power to it.

### Amplifiier

An amplifier is necessary to drive the speakers based on the audio output of
the Mac Mini. After a little bit of digging I found out about
[41 Hz](http://www.41hz.com), a source for amplifier kits based on Tripath's
T-Amplifiers. These amps are prefect for my purpose, they're cheap, small
enough to fit inside the head unit, and they produce great sound. From the
manual I determined that the original head unit had a 4x25W amplifier inside,
so I ordered two of the amp6-basics, which are each 2x25W.

### Case

Rather than just gutting my old head unit, and going without music for a while,
I decided to pick up an old volvo head unit from a junkyard. It ended up
costing me a little but more but I couldn't count on getting this done quickly.

## Construction

### Plan

### Implementation

## Problems and Debugging

### Ground Loop

Before taking the time to assemble everything into the head unit, I wanted to
make sure that the system worked properly. So I connected the battery and
speakers to the device and tried starting up the computer, instead of the
familiar mac boot up sound, all I heard was some serious noise.

I spent a good portion of my summer trying to identify the source of this
noise. I tried putting a [pi filter](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pi_filter) on
the amplifier's power rail, a passive low pass filter on the audio signal from
the mac, and several other filters, but none of them had any effect.

After researching some typical causes of noise in audio systems I realized that
I had created a
[ground loop](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ground_loop_(electricity)) between
the amplifier, mac mini, power supply and back to the mac mini. Im sure this
would be obvious to anyone who had worked with audio and analog systems to any
extent, but this was really my first foray into analog, so I never saw it
coming.

The solution is just to isolate one of the connections in the loop. Since
that's not really an option for the power rails, I added a 1:1 transformer to
the audio signal between the mac mini and the amplifier. This essentially opens
up the loop since there is no longer a direct ground connection through the
transformer.

Once the ground loop was removed, the system worked perfectly. Here's a video
of that first successful test:

{% vimeo 7115934 width="600" height="450" %}

Since it was working just fine, I went ahead and assembled the whole device and
tested it again:

{% vimeo 7115961 width="600" height="450" %}

### Battery Draining

Unfortunately, the problems didn't end there. After installing the device in my
car permanently, I managed to completely drain my battery several times. This
was happening because I had my power supply configured to sleep the computer
rather than turn it off when the car wasn't running. When I left the car
without starting it for a few days, the sleeping computer would drain the
battery.

I was under the impression that the Carnetix power supply would monitor the
battery voltage and turn the computer off if it got too low. However after a
little bit of research I found out that the standard firmware sets the low
battery threshold far too low. I was able to follow
[instructions](http://www.carnetix.com/firmware/UFlashInstructions.htm) on the
Carnetix website to modify the
[constant](http://www.carnetix.com/firmware/MemoryLocations.htm) controlling
the threshold, and reflash the power supply.
